I found the Characteristic p methods in algebraic geometry an incredibly useful and enjoyable conference to attend. It had a great mixture of background and research focussed talks.

The majority of lectures covered known material, with the aim of showing PhD students key topics in the area. This was done well, with a good balance struck between giving background information and focussing on key, difficult points. Many different aspects of the area were considered, such as the mimimal model program in positive characteristic and the Frobenius map, and plenty of time was available to answer questions from the audience clearly and in detail. In particular, both James McKernan and Karl Schwede gave numerous lectures. This allowed for them to really get in to the details of more complex topics without having to worry about confusing people by assuming too much knowledge.

An excellent feature were the daily exercises provided relating to each of the days lectures. These were discussed in groups and kindly provided by Karl Schwede and James McKernan, who were present in the exercise sessions to give suggestions and elucidate points that may have been missed earlier. The exercises really helped to break up the schedule and consolidate the material we looked at throughout the day.

Other senior participants gave more research focussed talks, showing some more current topics and adding a great amount breadth to the proceedings. It was especially good to see the relations between current research and the more foundational aspects that were shown to us throughout the week. It was also great to see applications of the work, and connections with other disciplines. Nick Shepherd-Barron, for example, discussed recent work he had been undertaking to find a mathematical base for current coding theory methods being used in engineering and security, and how this led from questions in positive characteristic birational geometry to questions about coxeter groups.

The workshops also offered PhD students the chance to present work. I was personally able to give a talk, as were other participants, which was an excellent opportunity to showcase my current research. It also gave good opportunity to discuss various research topics that are related those of both other students and present academics. There was also a poster session, maximising the amount of people who were able to benefit by sharing their work. It was especially nice that this was on the first day, as everyone was able to get a good judgement of what other peoples areas were for the rest of the week.

Overall, I found the conference both enjoyable and very informative, and I would like to thank the LMS for funding the event.
